.\" This file is part of fsio, see <https://qu1x.org/fsio>.
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Rouven Spreckels <n3vu0r@qu1x.org>
.\" 
.\" fsio is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License version 3
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation on 19 November 2007.
.\" 
.\" fsio is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with fsio. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses>.
.\"
.TH fsio 1 "June 09, 2016" "fsio\-1.0.1" "fsio"
.SH NAME
fsio \- Feedback Synchronized I/O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsio
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\-\-] \fIFSIO\fR \fIMODE\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIDUMP\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Map \fIFSIO\fR channel and transfer \fIFILE\fR. Either \fBget\fR \fIFILE\fR from
or \fBput\fR \fIFILE\fR to \fIFSIO\fR with \fIMODE\fR of \fBget\fR|\fBput\fR,
respectively. Optionally dump statistics to \fIDUMP\fR.
.PP
\fIFSIO\fR is an XML file with root node \fBfsio\fR, referred to as channel
description file. Its first child node \fBhs\fR represents the handshake maps.
Following child nodes \fBfs\fR represent data maps summing up to the total
channel width. Each child node, \fBhs\fR or \fBfs\fR, takes three attributes,
the \fBwidth\fR of their maps, and two base addresses, \fBi\fR and \fBo\fR, of
their input and output map, respectively. In case of dual channel mode, a single
map of two channels can be used instead of two separate maps. This is indicated
by a leading \fB+\fR of the \fBo\fR address, representing the offset of the
second channel relative to the base address \fBi\fR of the first channel.
.PP
\fBNOTE\fR: For increased statistics, compile with feature
\fB\-\-enable\-stat\fR. Along the transfer rate, this additionally dumps the
count of polls of each map divided by \fIBUF\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-eof\fR \fIEOF\fR
Stop \fIFILE\fR transfer after \fIEOF\fR bytes. In \fBput\fR mode, the file
size, if determinable, is used as default.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-buf\fR \fIBUF\fR (16384)
Use \fIBUF\fR multiples of \fIFSIO\fR width as \fIFILE\fR buffer.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-show\fR buf|eof
Show statistics after each \fIBUF\fR or at \fIEOF\fR only.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-no\-feed\fR
Get without feeding data back.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-no\-back\fR
Put without getting data back.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-poll\fR \fIPOLL\fR (0)
Use polling interval of \fIPOLL\fR nanoseconds.

\fBNOTE\fR: Only available if compiled with feature \fB\-\-enable\-wait\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.PP
Errors within the user\-defined range from \fB64\fR to \fB113\fR:
.TP
.B 64
Invalid command line argument usage
.TP
.B 65
File I/O error
.TP
.B 66
Safe and synchronous abortion by single Ctrl-C
.TP
.B 67
Unsafe and asynchronous abortion by double Ctrl-C
.TP
.B 113
Something unexpected
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2016 Rouven Spreckels <n3vu0r@qu1x.org>
.PP
fsio is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License version 3
as published by the Free Software Foundation on 19 November 2007.
.PP
fsio is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with fsio. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses>.
.SH WEBSITE
<https://qu1x.org/fsio>
.SH AUTHORS
Rouven Spreckels <n3vu0r@qu1x.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.B fsio\-tvgen(1) sha1sum(1)
